fix: rehaul-kubernetes (#640)
appsmithorg/appsmith-docs: website/docs/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes/README.mdx

---
description: Deploy Appsmith on a Kubernetes cluster
sidebar_position: 3
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Kubernetes

> [Kubernetes[K8s]](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/) is an open source platform for managing, scaling, and automating the deployment of [containerized applications](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Containerization). It's one of the most popular container orchestration tools. The guide helps you to install [Appsmith](https://github.com/appsmithorg/appsmith) on a [Kubernetes](https://github.com/appsmithorg/appsmith/blob/release/deploy/helm/kubernetes.io) cluster using [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

Author: Sure.

> [Kubernetes[K8s]](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/) is an open source platform for managing, scaling, and automating the deployment of [containerized applications](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Containerization). It's one of the most popular container orchestration tools. The guide helps you to install [Appsmith](https://github.com/appsmithorg/appsmith) on a [Kubernetes](https://github.com/appsmithorg/appsmith/blob/release/deploy/helm/kubernetes.io) cluster using [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

Author: Done.

## Prerequisites

> Before installing Appsmith, a few prerequisites need to be installed and configured.

Reviewer: in both the points lets just hyperlink once. 

For eg: I see that Helm Package Manager and Helm documentation are the same links.  so lets just hyperlink the main word here

Author: Got it.

Author: Done.

1. Install the [Helm Package Manager](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)- Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes. It allows you to install and manage applications on Kubernetes. To install Helm, follow the instructions for your platform from the official [Helm documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).
2. Install [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/vi/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) - `kubectl` is the command-line interface for Kubernetes. It allows you to run commands against Kubernetes clusters to manage applications and other resources. To install kubectl, follow the instructions for your platform from the official [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/vi/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).

> ### Configure Kubernetes cluster

Reviewer: this looks good. But I'm just a little concerned about whether users will consider this as a prerequisite as it got disconnected from the points above.

Author: Hmm. I'll add guideline for that.

Author: Done.

  3. The NGINX Ingress Controller should be enabled by default. If not, [add on: Ingress](https://microk8s.io/docs/addon-ingress). Ensure that you enable the correct version for your cluster.
    
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Install Appsmith

You've installed and configured the Kubernetes cluster. Now, you can install Appsmith using Helm.

1. Download the [`values.yaml`](https://bit.ly/3ETEgPT) file, and place it into the Appsmith installation folder.

OR, run the following cURL:

```bash
curl -L https://bit.ly/3ETEgPT -o $PWD/values.yml
```

2. Add Appsmith into your repository using Helm. First, add the Appsmith Helm repository to your local Helm installation. It allows Helm to download the Appsmith chart from the Appsmith GitHub repository.

```bash
helm repo add appsmith https://helm.appsmith.com
```
3. Update the Helm repository to make sure you have the latest version of the Appsmith chart by running the following command:

```bash
helm repo update
```
4. Install Appsmith on your Kubernetes cluster using the Helm chart. Replace `<your-namespace>` with the namespace you want to install Appsmith in, and `<release-name>` with a unique name for the Appsmith release:

```bash

> helm install <release-name> appsmith/appsmith --namespace <your-namespace>

Author: We'll have to check the technical correctness for this.

Reviewer: @sharat87

Reviewer 2: This should just be `appsmith`, taken from `helm repo add` command.

Author: Did you mean below command:
helm repo add appsmith https://helm.appsmith.com

Reviewer 2: Yes. The `<release-name>` shoult just be `appsmith`.

```

It creates all the necessary Kubernetes objects to run Appsmith on your clusters, such as pods, services, and ingresses with the default configuration. Read more on configurations you can do in the [Configure Appsmith](#configure-appsmith) section.

5. Wait for Appsmith to be ready by running the following command:

```bash

> kubectl -n <your-namespace> rollout status deployment <release-name>-appsmith

Author: We'll have to check the technical correctness for this.

Author: @sharat87 - please confirm.

Reviewer 2: This command doesn't _wait_ for the cluster to be ready, it just displays the status. It's not strictly necessary to be included here, but if we want to include it, we need to frame it like "You can check the status of your installation with this" or something of that sort.

```
When the deployment is ready, you should see a message that says deployment "appsmith" successfully rolled out.

6. Access Appsmith by visiting the URL that was output by the Helm installation command. You can also use the `kubectl` command to get the URL. The URL has a `hostname` and `port` of the Appsmith ingress to access Appsmith using a web browser.

> ```bash 

Author: We'll have to check the technical correctness for this.

Author: @sharat87 - please confirm

Reviewer 2: @pratapaprasanna, can you verify this command please?

| `storageClass.allowVolumeExpansion` | Allow expansion of Persistent Volume Claims using Storage Class      | `true`             |
| `storageClass.reclaimPolicy`        | Configure the retention of the dynamically created Persistent Volume | `Delete`           |
| `storageClass.provisioner`          | Storage Class provisioner                                            | `""`               |
| `storageClass.annotations`          | Additional storage class annotations                                 | `{}`               |
| `storageClass.mountOptions`         | Mount options used by Persistent Volumes                             | `{}`               |
| `storageClass.parameters`           | Storage Class parameters                                             | `{}`               |

#### Auto update image

| Name                   | Description                                   | Value         |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `autoupdate.enabled`   | Enable auto update Helm chart's image         | `true`        |
| `autoupdate.scheduler` | Schedule time to run cron job to update image | `"0 * * * *"` |

> When using command, specify each parameter using `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to helm install. For example, the below command deploys Appsmith and configures it to use the storage class name `appsmith-pv`. 

Reviewer: I now see why you had a separate sub-heading for this. I guess this is talking about the two ways users can specify parameters, isn't it? So, instead of the earlier 'Configure parameters' subheading (which I earlier asked to remove as it looked redundant), can we make the heading any one of these - Define parameters / Specify parameters / Set parameters, whichever makes most sense

Author: Set parameters - seems a good option to me. I'll add that.

Author: Done.

---
description: Deploy Appsmith on a Kubernetes cluster

> sidebar_position: 3

Reviewer 2: Does this work? We aren't using auto-generated sidebar, right? I don't think this has any affect.

Ref: https://docusaurus.io/docs/sidebar/autogenerated#autogenerated-sidebar-metadata

Auto-generated sidebar is disabled here:
https://github.com/appsmithorg/appsmith-docs/blob/main/website/sidebars.js#L16-L19

Author: No, it's simply ignored. Only the description is needed to generate the preview whenever the link is shared.

Reviewer 2: Can we remove it then? Can be misleading to readers right?

Author: readers don't see this. It's hidden. But we can remove it. Done.

---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Kubernetes

> [Kubernetes[K8s]](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/) is an open source platform for managing, scaling, and automating the deployment of [containerized applications](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Containerization). It's one of the most popular container orchestration tools. The guide helps you to install Appsmith on a Kubernetes cluster using [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Kubernetes (K8s)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/) is an open source platform for managing, scaling, and automating the deployment of [containerized applications](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Containerization). It's one of the most popular container orchestration tools. This guide helps you to install Appsmith on a Kubernetes cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.
```

## Prerequisites

> Before installing Appsmith, a few prerequisites need to be installed and configured.

Author: @danciaclara - the change you added will be a hard-to-read sentence; thus, the one already present seems okay.

> Before installing Appsmith, a few prerequisites need to be installed and configured.

Author: I guess we can rewrite it as below:
`Before you install Appsmith, there are a few things that you need to install and configure.`

> Before installing Appsmith, a few prerequisites need to be installed and configured.

Reviewer: How about 

> Before you install Appsmith, there are a few things you need to do to meet the following prerequisites.

OR 

> Before you install Appsmith, there are a few tools that you need to install and configure.

> Before installing Appsmith, a few prerequisites need to be installed and configured.

Author: > Before you install Appsmith, there are a few things you need to do to meet the following prerequisites.

The meaning changes here -  users would think that they need some things to meet the prerequisites.

I think the below sounds good.
> Before you install Appsmith, you must install and configure the following prerequisites.

> Before you install Appsmith, you must install and configure the following prerequisites.
> 1. Install the Helm Package Manager - Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes. It allows you to install and manage applications on Kubernetes. To install Helm, follow the instructions for your platform from the official [Helm documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).
> 
> 2. Install `kubectl` - `kubectl` is the command-line interface for Kubernetes. It allows you to run commands against Kubernetes clusters to manage applications and other resources. To install kubectl, follow the instructions for your platform from the official [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/vi/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).
> 
> Now that you've installed Helm and kubectl, configure the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: This looks a little too repetitive.

```suggestion
Before you install Appsmith, ensure the following are installed:

1. Helm Package Manager - This is a package manager for Kubernetes clusters. It allows you to install and manage applications on Kubernetes clusters. To install Helm, follow the instructions for your platform from the official [Helm documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

2. `kubectl` - This is the command-line interface to manage resources on Kubernetes clusters. To install `kubectl`, follow the instructions for your platform from the official [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/vi/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).

```

    2. Ensure that you have a default storage class running. If not, [create default storage class](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/storage-classes.html)
    3. The NGINX Ingress Controller is enabled by default. If not, [install NGINX Controller for AWS EKS](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/#network-load-balancer-nlb).
    Ensure that you enable the correct version for your cluster.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Microk8s" value="Microk8s">

  1. Set up Kubernetes by following [working with kubectl](https://microk8s.io/docs/working-with-kubectl).
  2. Ensure that you have a default storage class running. If not, [enable storage class](https://microk8s.io/docs/command-reference#heading--microk8s-enable).
  3. The NGINX Ingress Controller is enabled by default. If not, [add on: Ingress](https://microk8s.io/docs/addon-ingress). Ensure that you enable the correct version for your cluster.
    
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Install Appsmith

You've installed and configured the Kubernetes cluster. Great, now go ahead and install Appsmith using Helm.

> 1. Download the [`values.yaml`](https://bit.ly/3ETEgPT) file, and place it into the Appsmith installation folder.
> 
> OR, run the following cURL:
> 
> ```bash
> curl -L https://bit.ly/3ETEgPT -o $PWD/values.yml
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Download the [`values.yaml`](https://bit.ly/3ETEgPT) file, and place it into the Appsmith installation folder. Or, run the following `cURL` command:

   ```bash
   curl -L https://bit.ly/3ETEgPT -o "$PWD/values.yml"
   ```
```

> 2. Add Appsmith into your repository using Helm. First, add the Appsmith Helm repository to your local Helm installation. It allows Helm to download the Appsmith chart from the Appsmith GitHub repository.
> 
> 
> ```bash
> helm repo add appsmith https://helm.appsmith.com
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Add the Appsmith chart repository with:

   ```bash
   helm repo add appsmith https://helm.appsmith.com
   ```

```

> 3. Update the Helm repository to make sure you have the latest version of the Appsmith chart by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Load the Appsmith chart repository with:
```

```bash
helm repo update
```

> 4. Install Appsmith on your Kubernetes cluster using the Helm chart. Replace `<your-namespace>` with the namespace you want to install Appsmith in, and `<release-name>` with a unique name for the Appsmith release:
> 
> ```bash
> helm install <release-name> appsmith/appsmith --namespace <your-namespace>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Install Appsmith on your Kubernetes cluster using the Helm chart. Replace `<your-namespace>` with the namespace you want to install Appsmith in:

```bash
helm install appsmith appsmith/appsmith --namespace <your-namespace>
```

```

When installing Appsmith using Helm, it automatically creates all the necessary Kubernetes objects to run the app on your clusters, such as pods, services, and ingresses with the default configuration. For more information on customizing the configuration, checkout the [Configure Appsmith](#configure-appsmith) section.

5. Wait for Appsmith to be ready by running the following command:

```bash
kubectl -n <your-namespace> rollout status deployment <release-name>-appsmith
```
When the deployment is ready, a message that indicates the deployment of "appsmith" has been successfully rolled out is displayed.

6. Access Appsmith by visiting the URL that was output by the Helm installation command. Use the `kubectl` command to get the URL. The URL has a `hostname` and `port` of the Appsmith ingress to access Appsmith using a web browser.

```bash 
kubectl -n <your-namespace> get ingress <release-name>-appsmith
```

Congratulations, you have successfully installed Appsmith on your Kubernetes cluster using Helm. For more detailed instructions and options for configuring the Appsmith Helm chart, see the Configure Appsmith section below.

## Configure Appsmith

> Appsmith installation works with the default configuration. However, you have an option to customize the installation to fit your specific needs. To configure parameters either use the command line or use the `values.yaml` file. The following is a comprehensive list of available parameters that helps you tailor your installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Appsmith installation works with the default configuration. However, you have an option to customize the installation to fit your specific needs. To configure parameters, we recommend using the `values.yaml` file. The following is a comprehensive list of available parameters that helps you tailor your installation.
```

| `storageClass.parameters`           | Storage Class parameters                                             | `{}`               |

#### Auto update image

| Name                   | Description                                   | Value         |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `autoupdate.enabled`   | Enable auto update Helm chart's image         | `true`        |
| `autoupdate.scheduler` | Schedule time to run cron job to update image | `"0 * * * *"` |

### Set parameters

When using command, specify each parameter using `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to helm install. For example, the below command deploys Appsmith and configures it to use the storage class name `appsmith-pv`. 

```bash
helm install \
--set persistence.storageClass=appsmith-pv \
  stable-appsmith/appsmith --generate-name
```

Similarly, run the below command if you wish to change the encryption salt configuration.

```bash 
helm install \
--set applicationConfig.APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT=123 \
  stable-appsmith/appsmith --generate-name
```

> Alternatively, use a `values.yaml` file. You can specify the parameter values needed for installing the chart. To change configurations specific to Appsmith update the `values.yaml` file. Listed below are available configurations for Appsmith.

Author: The first step to the install has a link to download the values.yaml file so the same is not repeated here. This is based on our call with @sharat87. If the filenames are not in the code block, linter cries and then we have to add it as exception. However, highlighting it in code block works and solves the issue too. Let me know if we want to discuss on this.

> Alternatively, use a `values.yaml` file. You can specify the parameter values needed for installing the chart. To change configurations specific to Appsmith update the `values.yaml` file. Listed below are available configurations for Appsmith.

Reviewer: Yeah, I think we should find a standard for mentioning file names. Maybe the same CSS style as here - https://developers.google.com/style/filenames

> Alternatively, use a `values.yaml` file. You can specify the parameter values needed for installing the chart. To change configurations specific to Appsmith update the `values.yaml` file. Listed below are available configurations for Appsmith.

Author: As discussed, we will use the message component with a different style for this. I'll do a subsequent PR for that.

| [`applicationConfig.APPSMITH_MAIL_SMTP_AUTH`](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/email/)              | `""`  |
| `applicationConfig.APPSMITH_MAIL_SMTP_TLS_ENABLED`       | `""`  |
| [`applicationConfig.APPSMITH_DISABLE_TELEMETRY`](https://docs.appsmith.com/product/telemetry#disable-telemetry)           | `""`  |
| `applicationConfig.APPSMITH_RECAPTCHA_SITE_KEY`          | `""`  |
| `applicationConfig.APPSMITH_RECAPTCHA_SECRET_KEY`        | `""`  |
| `applicationConfig.APPSMITH_RECAPTCHA_ENABLED`           | `""`  |
| [`applicationConfig.APPSMITH_MONGODB_URI`](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-mongodb-redis#custom-mongodb)                | `""`  |
| [`applicationConfig.APPSMITH_REDIS_URL`](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-mongodb-redis#custom-redis)                   | `""`  |
| `applicationConfig.APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD`         | `""`  |
| `applicationConfig.APPSMITH_ENCRYPTION_SALT`             | `""`  |
| [`applicationConfig.APPSMITH_CUSTOM_DOMAIN`](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-domain/#dockerk8s)               | `""`  |

> Once you have made changes to the values file, run the below command.

Reviewer: I think there is some confusion here. do the users have run this command every time to update the configuration or is it a one-time thing?  @sharat87

Reviewer 2: Every time. It's like saying, _I'm finished with my changes, now go ensure this configuration on my cluster_.

Author: Should we add that it's needed eveyrtime changes are done or it's clear to the users.

Reviewer 2: I think it's fine.

```bash

> helm install -f values.yaml stable-appsmith/appsmith --generate-name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
helm install -f values.yaml appsmith/appsmith --generate-name
```

```

## Publish Appsmith

To make your Appsmith installation accessible on the internet, you need an Ingress controller set up. For more information on Ingress controllers, see the Configure Kubernetes Cluster section. If you haven't yet installed the Helm chart, you can run the following command to install the chart, enable the ingress controller, and publish Appsmith.

```bash 
helm install appsmith/appsmith --generate-name \
  --set ingress.enabled=true \
  --set ingress.annotations."kubernetes\.io/ingress\.class"=nginx \
  --set service.type=ClusterIP

> ```

Reviewer 2: @pratapaprasanna, can you help change this instructions to configuring Ingress in `values.yaml`, instead of advising users to do it with the `--set` arguments please?

> If you have installed Appsmith Helm chart, run the `helm upgrade` command to upgrade the existing installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have already installed Appsmith, run the `helm upgrade` command to upgrade the existing installation, and apply these configuration changes.
```

    ```
    helm upgrade --set ingress.enabled=true appsmith appsmith/appsmith

    # Or this command if you are using values.yaml file
    helm upgrade --values values.yaml appsmith appsmith/appsmith

>     ```

Reviewer 2: These lines don't need an indentation I think.

Author: Done.

> ## Updating Appsmith

Author: I wanted to keep it 'Update Appsmith' but saw that it's updating Appsmith for other installation guides so kept it that way. I guess `Update` should be appropriate. The style guide has no issues with this.

> ## Updating Appsmith

Reviewer: Let's also finalize a standard for this, so that there is no confusion on other pages.

Appsmith installation can be updated manually or by enabling auto update.

### Auto update

> The default Appsmith helm installation disables the auto update (_Recommended_). You have an option to enable auto update by either setting it in values file or using a command.

Reviewer 2: The `recommended` tag is confusing here. Are we recommending _the auto-update feature itself_, or are we recommending _keeping auto-update disabled_?

```suggestion
The default Appsmith helm installation disables auto update (_recommended_). You have an option to enable auto update by either setting it in values file or using a command.
```

Author: As per existing doc, I kept it as is.

    ```

* Command: Pass an argument using the `--set` keyword (`--set autoupdate.enabled=true`) to the command.

    ```
      helm install appsmith/appsmith --generate-name \
        --set ingress.enabled=true \
        --set ingress.annotations."kubernetes\.io/ingress\.class"=nginx \
        --set service.type=ClusterIP \
        --set autoupdate.enabled=true
    ```

### Manual update

To manually update the Appsmith container image to the latest release, run the command: 

```bash
kubectl rollout restart statefulset appsmith
```

## Enable data compression for Ingress controller

The default installation doesn't have data compression configured for Nginx ingress controller. Follow the below steps to enable it.

1. Edit the `configMap` for `ingress-nginx-controller` by using the below command

```bash
kubectl edit configmap -n ingress-nginx ingress-nginx-controller
```

2. Add the following to the data section.

```yaml
data: # ADD IF NOT PRESENT
  use-gzip: "true" # ENABLE GZIP COMPRESSION
  gzip-types: "*" # SPECIFY MIME TYPES TO COMPRESS ("*" FOR ALL) 
```

The Nginx controller automatically updates once you save (`:wq!`) the changes.

## Uninstall Appsmith

> To uninstall the <mark>`appsmith`</mark> release. The command uninstalls the release and removes Kubernetes resources associated with the chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The following command uninstalls Appsmith and removes all Kubernetes resources associated with the chart:
```

```bash
helm list
NAME                       NAMESPACE       REVISION        UPDATED                                 STATUS          CHART           APP VERSION
#highlight-next-line
appsmith-1631069261        default         1               2021-09-09 11:24:40.152766 +0700 +07    deployed        appsmith-1.3.0  1.16.0

helm uninstall appsmith-1631069261
```

## Troubleshooting
If you’re having issues with the deployment, please see the [debugging deployment errors] troubleshooting guide(/help-and-support/troubleshooting-guide/deployment-errors.md). If you continue to have problems reach out on [Discord Server](https://discord.com/invite/rBTTVJp) or [send an email to support](mailto:support@appsmith.com) or ask questions on the [community forum](https://community.appsmith.com/).

## Further reading

* [Configuring Self Hosted Instances](/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/#configuring-kubernetes-installations)
* [Managing the Appsmith instance](/getting-started/setup/instance-management/)

> * [Migrate from multi-container](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes/migrate-k8s)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Migrate from multi-container to single container setup](/getting-started/setup/installation-guides/kubernetes/migrate-k8s)
```
